# AIPND-Project_1
This repo hosts my work for the first project of the Artificial Intelligence Programming with Python Nanodegree Program. This project revolved around using a pre-tained image classifier to classify images of animals into dogs and not dogs, as well as to identify the breed of dog in the picture. We tested three CNN models - vgg, alexnet, and resnet.

This project took around 10 hours to complete. All the auxiliary python programs that will be mentioned below were ran in the driver file *check_images.py*.

## My work revolved around:
* Recording the time it took for the entire program to execute, using the time module.
* Handling user inputs ((string) the path image directory where the user's dog images are stored, (string) the name of the CNN model used, (string) the list of valid dog breed names to be used in checking if an identified photo is a dog breed. I also provided default values in case the user decided not to provide their own values. This was done using the *argparse* module in the *get_input_args.py* file.
* Reading in a directory of pet image files and converted their names into a list of strings using the *listdir* module, then created a dictionary where the file names were the keys and a list containing one element - the associated labels for the pet breeds - was the values. I processed the filenames to convert them into pet labels within the *get_pet_labels.py** file. I returned this dictionary to the main check_images.py file.
* Using the predefined classifier method that came with the project to run the specified model on each image in the specified image directory. I then stored the label the model classified each image, as well as whether there was a match between the associated labels derived from the file name and the classifier label, within the dictionary from the last bullet point. This was done in the *classify_images.py* file.
* Analyzing the pet image and classifier labels of each file by comparing them to the list of valid dog breed names to see if the labels classified the associated file as "a dog" or "not a dog". This was done in the *adjust_results4_isadog.py* file.
* Creating a list of statistics to summarize the effectiveness and results of each model run. This included the percentage of files that both the classifier and pet image labels agreed were or were not dogs, as well as the percentage of files where the classifier and pet image lables matched and the pet image is a dog. This was done in the *calculate_results.py* file.
* Printing out the results of each model run for the user to see. This was done in the *print_results.py* file. I also uploaded four files I gathered, one of a golden retriever, another of a lion, another of a bed, and one last one, of the golden retriever but flipped upside down. The results are listed in the *check_images.txt* file. The results of running each model on the pet_images directory can be found in the *alexnet_pet-images.txt, resnet_pet-images.txt, and vgg_pet-images.txt* files. The results of running each model on the files I uploaded can be found in the *alexnet_uploaded-images.txt, resnet_uploaded-images.txt, and vgg_uploaded-images.txt* files.
* Every other file I did not mention or italicize in this section are files I did not work on.
